README.md, before:

# Learn Computer Vision with OpenCV - Bootcamp

Welcome to the  **Bootcamp** — a practical, hands-on learning series designed to help you master the fundamentals of **Computer Vision** using Python and OpenCV.  
Each notebook in this series focuses on a specific concept, combining theory with interactive examples and visual demonstrations.

---

## About the Series

This boot camp is designed for **beginners and aspiring computer vision developers** who want to understand how machines interpret and process images.  
Starting from the basics, you’ll gradually progress toward advanced topics like image processing, feature detection, and object recognition.

All notebooks are written in **Python (Jupyter Notebooks)** with clear explanations, code comments, and output visualizations.

---

## Course Outline

### 🧩 Class 1 — Introduction to OpenCV
Learn how to **read, display, and save images** using OpenCV.  
This session introduces you to the core image-handling functions and sets up your Python environment for computer vision work.

**What you’ll learn:**
- Reading and displaying images using `cv2.imread()` and `cv2.imshow()`
- Understanding color channels (BGR vs RGB)
- Saving modified images
- Basic image information (shape, size, data type)

---

### 🧩 Class 2 — Image Transformations
Explore how to **manipulate images geometrically** using transformations such as resizing, rotating, and flipping.  
These operations are the foundation for data augmentation and object localization.

**What you’ll learn:**
- Resizing images with `cv2.resize()`
- Rotating images using transformation matrices
- Flipping and cropping techniques
- Maintaining aspect ratios

---

### 🧩 Class 3 — Image Annotation
Master the art of **annotating images** by drawing shapes and adding text overlays — essential for labeling and visualizing detections.

**What you’ll learn:**
- Drawing lines, circles, and rectangles on images
- Using `cv2.putText()` to add text
- Understanding parameters like color, thickness, and font
- Practical use cases in visualization and debugging

---

### 🧩 Class 4 — Mathematical Operations on Images
Dive into **arithmetic and bitwise operations** to manipulate brightness, contrast, and image composition.  
Learn how these operations are used for masking, blending, and preprocessing in real-world computer vision.

**What you’ll learn:**
- Addition, subtraction, and multiplication of images
- Handling pixel overflow and clipping
- Thresholding (global and adaptive)
- Bitwise operations (`AND`, `OR`, `XOR`, `NOT`)
- Hands-on logo manipulation project

---


## 🧑‍💻 How to Use

1. Clone the repository  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/AsadBukhari886/learn-computer-vision-with-opencv
   ```
2. Navigate to the project folder  
   ```bash
   cd learn_computer_vision_with_opencv
   ```
3. Open any notebook and start exploring 🚀

---

## 📸 Preview

Each notebook includes visual outputs like this:


```python
import cv2
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

img = cv2.imread('sample.jpg')
img_rgb = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)
plt.imshow(img_rgb)
plt.title('Sample Image')
plt.show()
```
<img width="1606" height="306" alt="download" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/466f57e7-c466-412d-8ba7-c881aeef4ae9" />

---

## 🌟 Goals of the Bootcamp

- Build a **strong foundation** in Computer Vision concepts  
- Learn to **manipulate and visualize images** efficiently  
- Develop skills for **real-world AI and deep learning projects**  
- Prepare for more advanced topics like **object detection and segmentation**

---

## Author

**Syed Asad Ali Bukhari**  
AI Enthusiast | Tech Trainer | Youth Leader  
📍 Lahore, Pakistan  

🔗 [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/asadbukhari886) • [GitHub](https://github.com/asadbukhari886)

---

## 🏆 Acknowledgment

This repository is inspired by the OpenCV Bootcamp and educational resources provided by OpenCV.org. All code examples and explanations are adapted for learning purposes using the OpenCV Python library.

## 📚 References

- OpenCV Official Documentation
- OpenCV University Bootcamp
- PyImageSearch Tutorials

---

## 🏁 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** — free to use, modify, and share for educational purposes.

---

### ⭐ If you find this useful, don’t forget to star the repo!

Commit message:

Add Class 5 section on Image Alignment
Added a new section on image alignment techniques, covering homography and feature matching.

README.md, after:

# Learn Computer Vision with OpenCV - Bootcamp

Welcome to the  **Bootcamp** — a practical, hands-on learning series designed to help you master the fundamentals of **Computer Vision** using Python and OpenCV.  
Each notebook in this series focuses on a specific concept, combining theory with interactive examples and visual demonstrations.

---

## About the Series

This boot camp is designed for **beginners and aspiring computer vision developers** who want to understand how machines interpret and process images.  
Starting from the basics, you’ll gradually progress toward advanced topics like image processing, feature detection, and object recognition.

All notebooks are written in **Python (Jupyter Notebooks)** with clear explanations, code comments, and output visualizations.

---

## Course Outline

### 🧩 Class 1 — Introduction to OpenCV
Learn how to **read, display, and save images** using OpenCV.  
This session introduces you to the core image-handling functions and sets up your Python environment for computer vision work.

**What you’ll learn:**
- Reading and displaying images using `cv2.imread()` and `cv2.imshow()`
- Understanding color channels (BGR vs RGB)
- Saving modified images
- Basic image information (shape, size, data type)

---

### 🧩 Class 2 — Image Transformations
Explore how to **manipulate images geometrically** using transformations such as resizing, rotating, and flipping.  
These operations are the foundation for data augmentation and object localization.

**What you’ll learn:**
- Resizing images with `cv2.resize()`
- Rotating images using transformation matrices
- Flipping and cropping techniques
- Maintaining aspect ratios

---

### 🧩 Class 3 — Image Annotation
Master the art of **annotating images** by drawing shapes and adding text overlays — essential for labeling and visualizing detections.

**What you’ll learn:**
- Drawing lines, circles, and rectangles on images
- Using `cv2.putText()` to add text
- Understanding parameters like color, thickness, and font
- Practical use cases in visualization and debugging

---

### 🧩 Class 4 — Mathematical Operations on Images
Dive into **arithmetic and bitwise operations** to manipulate brightness, contrast, and image composition.  
Learn how these operations are used for masking, blending, and preprocessing in real-world computer vision.

**What you’ll learn:**
- Addition, subtraction, and multiplication of images
- Handling pixel overflow and clipping
- Thresholding (global and adaptive)
- Bitwise operations (`AND`, `OR`, `XOR`, `NOT`)
- Hands-on logo manipulation project

---

### 🧩 Class 5 — Image Alignment
Learn how to align a scanned or distorted image with a reference template using **feature matching** and **homography**.  
This technique is widely used in document scanning, panorama stitching, and augmented reality.

**What you’ll learn:**

- Understanding **Homography** — a transformation that maps points between two planes.
- Detecting keypoints using **ORB (Oriented FAST and Rotated BRIEF)**.
- Matching features between two images using **Brute-Force Hamming matcher**.
- Estimating **Homography matrix** using **RANSAC (Random Sample Consensus)**.
- Warping one image to align perfectly with another using **cv2.warpPerspective()**.

**Practical Use Case:**

Aligning a scanned form or document to its original digital template for accurate data extraction and comparison.


## 🧑‍💻 How to Use

1. Clone the repository  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/AsadBukhari886/learn-computer-vision-with-opencv
   ```
2. Navigate to the project folder  
   ```bash
   cd learn_computer_vision_with_opencv
   ```
3. Open any notebook and start exploring 🚀

---

## 📸 Preview

Each notebook includes visual outputs like this:


```python
import cv2
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

img = cv2.imread('sample.jpg')
img_rgb = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)
plt.imshow(img_rgb)
plt.title('Sample Image')
plt.show()
```
<img width="1606" height="306" alt="download" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/466f57e7-c466-412d-8ba7-c881aeef4ae9" />

---

## 🌟 Goals of the Bootcamp

- Build a **strong foundation** in Computer Vision concepts  
- Learn to **manipulate and visualize images** efficiently  
- Develop skills for **real-world AI and deep learning projects**  
- Prepare for more advanced topics like **object detection and segmentation**

---

## Author

**Syed Asad Ali Bukhari**  
AI Enthusiast | Tech Trainer | Youth Leader  
📍 Lahore, Pakistan  

🔗 [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/asadbukhari886) • [GitHub](https://github.com/asadbukhari886)

---

## 🏆 Acknowledgment

This repository is inspired by the OpenCV Bootcamp and educational resources provided by OpenCV.org. All code examples and explanations are adapted for learning purposes using the OpenCV Python library.

## 📚 References

- OpenCV Official Documentation
- OpenCV University Bootcamp
- PyImageSearch Tutorials

---

## 🏁 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** — free to use, modify, and share for educational purposes.

---

### ⭐ If you find this useful, don’t forget to star the repo!
